Bathhouses had been and have been such a huge
part of queer men’s culture.
It was like, “Well, why can’t we have
that?” [laughs]
What, you don’t think that we want
to have casual sex?
We want to have this space and we want to
have this opportunity.
And we want to be able to, like the guys do,
have that be an option for us.
I have always been jealous of gay men’s
community and how much space they have, sexual
space, in bathhouses and bars and parties.
And it’s always frustrated me that we don’t
have that as easily accessible and available
to us.
And I think, historically, women and trans
people have had other kinds of pressures and
responsibilities than men have.
In terms of the economies of life, emotional
labour, familial labour, domestic labour,
and these kinds of things.
So, I think there’s just a difference.
I think that historically gay men’s culture
in particular reflects a very particular kind
of freedom and economic privilege.
For me, it was just powerful to be able to
do that and to take over that space and to
be shameless in being able to have that kind
of thing for ourselves.
In my experience at the time, the only communities
that did that, that included queer women,
were the kink and leather communities.
And there was a lot of spaces for that.
Public play parties and dungeons.
And they were mixed gender and...
But there hadn’t been anything...
That kind of a space for queer women, queer,
female-identified folks.
I mean, it was not like we weren’t having
public sex.
You know, we were also having sex in bars
too.
We were having sex in the bathroom all the
time.
It also was an extension of what was already
happening.
I think the intention was to make women’s
sexuality and women’s play just normal.
Not such a sideshow.
We want to have a place to go and get naked
and fuck and play, and it not be unusual.
Our sexuality is classed, right?
And our class is sexualized.
I come from a family that is very outside
of normative heterosexuality.
I'm from four generations of like unwed Catholic
teenage moms.
We are not respectable.
We do not [laughs] fit into the norms and
expectations of good, respectable white womanhood.
And I didn't want to.
My class background is a very important part
of why I was involved in the bathhouse and
my relationship with sex generally.
I knew it would push my boundaries.
And I just wanted to be adventurous and do
something different.
I was curious.
I’d heard so much about it, and I couldn’t
imagine what it would feel like to walk through
a space like that where you’re seeing other
people around you experiencing their sexuality.
Like, just being by the pool and opening their
legs, and just deciding, “This is how I’m
going to be right now.”
Or seeing people not feeling shame for being
blatantly sexual, for wearing a “slutty”
outfit, these things that we’re not supposed
to do, and we’re doing them in droves, and
we’re practically high fiving each other
for it.
You know, it was very freeing.
I remember, I think it might’ve been the
second or third time I went, and I was trying
to go to sleep.
And there’s two women in the cubicle next
to me who are like talking about their childhood
trauma and their ex.
And I’m like, “Oh my God, would you two
just shut up?
Have sex already, like enough.”
Right, so? [laughs] “Did I come here for
this?
No!”
It’s just funny because where men are just
socialized, whether they’re gay or straight,
to be very assertive and when they want stuff,
they go for it, it’s a whole other weird
little dance with women because we’re not
really socialized to be that way sexually.
So, it’s just about good things that people
keep telling you are bad things and realizing
they’re not bad things.
It was just like, “Go party.
Go have fun.”
Sex is supposed to be good, and a good thing,
and not something to be demonized.
So, for example, you could have somebody in
one room engaged in getting flogged.
And then I walked into another room where
there was a group of six women sitting, playing
spin the bottle because that’s what they
felt comfortable with.
And then there was another woman who was in
her 70s, getting a lap dance.
There was just everything that didn’t have
to be connected to romantic love or a formal date.
It could just be sex for sex’s sake.
And for yourself, for your pleasure.